# Lung-Tumor-Segmentation

Introduction
Machine Learning has many use cases in the field of medicine and healthcare that have brought about revolutionary changes. These applications range from predicting stages of diseases, early prediction and diagnosis and in the discovery of new medication. In this context, our project aims to perform Image Segmentation on Lung CT Images to obtain tumour regions. Computed-Tomography (CT) is the best imaging technique in the medical field since it uses X-Rays to provide detailed information about the organ, with high resolution. A lung tumor is an abnormal growth of cells occurring in the lung tissue or in the airways that lead to the lung. Tumors can be categorised as malignant or benign. Malignant tumors indicate the onset of cancer, whereas benign tumors are harmless and are usually formed due to infections, scarring or inflammation. Finding out the type of lung tumor at an early stage is crucial, since the treatment plan can be made accordingly. Surgery decisions and personalized treatment plans can be made quickly and more accurately by finding out the region and size of the tumor. The tumor appears as a shadow or spot in the lung region. Traditional methods in delimiting tumor boundaries involve manually annotating the tumour region or selecting the nodule by enhancement filters. However, these techniques are time consuming and costly for both the patient and the doctor. Furthermore, doctors and radiologists may need a second opinion for confirmation. Machine learning, especially deep learning models have the ability to process large amounts of information to achieve high levels of abstraction, and thus are suitable for the task of detecting tumors. We investigate two Deep Neural Networks, SegNet and U-Net, for obtaining the tumours. Both are popular Convolutional Neural Networks aimed at performing semantic segmentation tasks. WE will be comparing results obtained from both.
Therefore by using CNNs, we can reduce the challenges of radiologists and quicken 1 the process of detecting early tumours.
